[[Euramae Trading Company]] was a company operating throughout the Middle East, described by [[Michael Riconosciuto]] as a companion company to [[First Intercontinental Development Corporation|FIDCO]] and an [[National Security Council|NSC]] cutout. It was also identified as a [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]]/[[Central Intelligence Agency|CIA]] "front" by [[Lester Coleman]], newly established by the Cypriot Police Narcotics Squad in Nicosia, [[Cyprus]].[^1]

Euramae's operations were deeply intertwined with drug trafficking and intelligence activities. It served as a transit point for heroin from the Bekaa Valley in [[Lebanon]], cash, documents, and bootleg computer software moving along the Beirut-Nicosia-U.S. pipeline. It was also intended as a meeting place for [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]] and [[Central Intelligence Agency|CIA]] agents with informants and clients, a message drop for [[Central Intelligence Agency|CIA]] arms dealers supplying [[Iraq]] and the [[Mujahideen]] in [[Afghanistan]], and a waiting room for [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]] confidential informants and couriers from [[Lebanon]].[^1]

[[Michael Riconosciuto]] claimed that Euramae was involved in the drug trade as a fully sanctioned [[National Security Council|NSC]]-directed operation. He handled communications protocol and financial transactions for these operations. [[Michael T. Hurley]], the [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]] Country Attache in Nicosia, [[Cyprus]], had overall responsibility for Euramae Trading Company and its initiative to sell [[PROMIS]] software to Middle Eastern countries for drug abuse control.[^1]

[[Lester Coleman]] worked in the office of Euramae Trading Company, Ltd. in Nicosia, [[Cyprus]], between April and May 1988. He later expressed concern about poor security in the [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]] operation in [[Cyprus]]. Coleman also claimed that the [[Drug Enforcement Administration|DEA]], along with Cypriot, German, and British police, ran a "drug sting operation" code-named "Khourah" through [[Cyprus]] and airports in Europe, which involved delivering heroin from the Bekaa Valley to the [[United States]]. This operation allegedly used Pan Am Flight 103 as a "controlled delivery" flight, which later tragically exploded over Scotland.[^1]

---
## Footnotes

[^1]: Seymour, Cheri. *The Last Circle: Danny Casolaro’s Investigation into the Octopus and the PROMIS Software Scandal*. First Edition. TrineDay, 2010.