---
tags:
  - Event
  - Child_Trafficking
  - Illinois
  - 1970s
---

From inside Cook County jail, [[John David Norman]] was inexplicably granted access to the publishing, printing, and mailing facilities required to produce and distribute literature for his [[Odyssey Network]] under its new name The Delta Project. This was nothing but a fresh coat of paint given to the same boy trafficking scheme he had deployed through the mail for years. As reported by the Chicago Tribune in a retrospective article from 1977, the Cook County state's attorney's office and Chicago police stated that Norman's Delta Project was born in Cook County Jail while he was awaiting trial, and unknown to jail officials Norman used jail printing facilities to send out three newsletters about the project to homosexual clients throughout the country and to those who answered his advertisements in pornographic publications.

Assisting Norman with The Delta Project was a young inmate named [[Phillip Paske]]. A tall slimly built twenty-something transvestite with long blond hair, serving time for accessory to murder he had plead down to theft. Norman's young accomplice Phillip Paske was paroled in January 1976 and started helping Norman run The Delta Project, and for a time even became its custodian while Norman was in prison. In February 1976 a boy named [[Kenneth Hellstrom]] who testified against Norman was viciously stabbed to death on his way home from work. Given the circumstances, and with Norman in prison, Phillip Paske naturally became the prime suspect.

Then in May 1977 a judge inexplicably ordered Norman's early release and he moved with Phillip Paske into a basement apartment on W. Wrightwood Avenue in Chicago, just a short twenty-minute drive from where soon the bodies of twenty-nine teenaged boys would be exhumed from the crawlspace of [[John Wayne Gacy]]. Norman and Paske set the apartment up as a photography studio with blacked out windows and started recruiting local area Chicago boys for pornography and prostitution. The apartment was raided in June 1978 after a boy named [[Michael Salcido]] reported Norman to Chicago police for sexual assault. Inside the apartment police seized thousands of index cards listing details of Norman's extensive network of clientele, now sponsoring boys through an organisation called The Creative Corps. Norman was sent back to prison and Phillip Paske, found living with Norman at the address, was released without charge.

After John Norman went back to prison in June 1978, Phillip Paske lost his job as a children's supervisor at a public swimming pool, and as records show, went on to work at John Wayne Gacy's construction company, Painting Decorating Maintenance. Receipts for three payslips made out to Phillip Paske from PDM, dated September 1978, were found in the archives of the company's financial records from that period. These receipts corroborated claims made by Gacy just prior to his execution in the early 1990s. Gacy said he had known Phillip Paske, who worked for him and frequented his house in the months just prior to the discovery there of the largest mass grave of murdered boys since the excavation of [[Dean Corll]]'s boat shed in 1973.

Gacy said he was introduced to Phillip Paske through [[David Cram]], describing Paske as a dangerous child pimp who procured boys for sex and movies. Gacy said David Cram, [[Michael Rossi]], and Phillip Paske all had keys to his house and frequently used it during periods he had been out of town. When John Gacy named Phillip Paske and John Norman as accomplices in his 1992 media interviews, he stated that Phillip Paske and John