---
tags: ["Person", "Military", "Pakistan", "Drug Trafficking"]
---
Fazle Haq was a Pakistani general who smuggled U.S. supplies through [[Pakistan]]'s North-West Frontier Province into [[Afghanistan]].[^1] He was appointed governor of Pakistan's North-West Frontier Province in 1978.[^2]

### Role in Drug Trafficking and Afghan War

Haq became more powerful after the arrival of the [[Khomeini]] regime in [[Iran]].[^3] Drugs smuggled from Afghanistan through Iran began to come through Pakistan, which increased Haq's power.[^4] The funds generated by narcotics trafficking were put into the [[Bank of Credit and Commerce International|BCCI]].[^5]

During the [[Zia ul-Haq|Zia]] presidency, the U.S. deep-sixed information about Haq because he was considered a key figure in the supply of arms for the Afghan rebels, with his district being a primary route for smuggling.[^6] The U.S. government was aware of Haq's involvement in the drug trade.[^7]

When [[Benazir Bhutto]] ordered Haq's arrest, she aimed to demonstrate action against the drug problem.[^8] However, the charges against him disappeared after the generals removed Bhutto from power.[^9]

## Footnotes

[^1]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 9.
[^2]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 71.
[^3]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 71.
[^4]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 71.
[^5]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 71.
[^6]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 75.
[^7]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 71.
[^8]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 75.
[^9]: Beaty, Jonathan and Gwynne, S. C. *The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI*. New York: Random House, 1993, p. 75.
